## Notes for August 29, 2022

**Present:** Melissa Mendonça (@melissawm), Inessa Pawson, Ross Barnowski, Mars Lee (@marsbarlee)

- NumPy was selected as a featured project for [Grace Hopper Celebration Open Source Day 2022](
https://ghc.anitab.org/programs-and-awards/open-source-day/) held on Friday, September 16th, 8:00 am - 3:00 pm Pacific Time. 
We are currentlylooking for mentors who would be helping NumPy newcomers during this event. If you are available, please sign up here:
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Y1t7-Yu2INR-Unl277TCJmlKOSNWok8fX2NbES5jcgk/edit?usp=sharing.
You may choose to help for 2 hours only or stay longer.

  ***Who can be a NumPy mentor at a mentored/newcomers sprint?***
If you are comfortable providing guidance on git, NumPy development workflow, building NumPy documentation, setting up and using development environment, and using Gitpod, you are a great candidate for being a NumPy mentor to newcomers.

- Inessa: DOC: Improve the description of the dtype parameter in numpy.array docstring: https://github.com/numpy/numpy/issues/10614
    - Problem: Higly depends on individual set-up, would take too long to explain for each one
    - Possible solution: 'Check documention for d-type for details'
        - Does the documentation explain d-types sufficiently for this use case?
        - Link to d-type alias page?
        - [ ] Melissa: Comment on the issue with summary of this discussion
        - Leave the issue open for interested contributors to address the issue in the future

- Inessa: Presentation topics for NumPy Newcomers’ Hour 
To suggest a topic for future presentations, please leave a comment in this tracking issue: https://github.com/numpy/archive/issues/58.

- Melissa/Inessa: [Documentation user stories](https://github.com/numpy/numpy/issues/22089)
  Feel free to add yours!

- rossbar: numpy-tutorials: getting rid of gym/atari dependency
  * Licensing issues for end-user
  * Proposal, short-term fix: Make RL tutorial no longer executable
  * Long term fix: Someone to review issues, licensing, find a middle ground of execution without licensing trouble
      * But takes time, instead of letting this block us from solving licensing issue, we can do short-term fix
  * Another solution: Timestamp with version for articles about this, such as "This may not execute anymore"

- rossbar: Related to the above - what to do about non-executable tutorials (RL + NLP)?

- Mars: Update on Small Development Grant proposal, [NumPy Comics](https://docs.google.com/document/d/14O9Z368nhZ8Dc6pd37XbDa5tGa86_zLlcgcCotbUw7Y/edit?usp=sharing):
    - May not move foward with grant proposal due to conflict of interest
    - Proposal artist already works for NumPy through employer (Quansight)
    - Options for work to move foward
        - Artist to do work as part of Quansight-NumPy hours instead of grant?
            - Send same proposal details to employer, get approval through employer?
            - Timeline: Q4 2022? 2023?
        - Future Quansight 2023 internship
            - Cross-promote to [Open Source Design internship commununity](https://discourse.opensourcedesign.net/t/continuing-conversations-about-fellowships-internships-in-open-source-design/2722/13)?
            - After competing this version as a 'pilot'
    - Discussion about compensation for other roles: some roles are done as community contribution not financial compensation
        - Other roles: 'Domain expert' to check comic accuracy
        - focus groups and user research
    - Combine Artistic world, Review world: differing platforms and workflows
        - Similiar problem to video-production, vidoe format does not easily 
        - Show coming from NumPy, not just individual artistic work
            - SciPy comics, OSD call talked about getting disabled community to review alt text
            - Admit did not with conference timeline. One way to ensure include disabled communitity is compensation for review, which could come from a grant vs employer only compensate artist
        - Current proposal artist  workflow: Sticking to Github workflow
        - Github is moving to improve but no clear answer yet
    - Simlar disucssion happening in [OSD forum: Open Source Comics: Resources, Collaboration, and Funding for making Comics for Open Source Projects](https://discourse.opensourcedesign.net/t/open-source-comics-resources-collaboration-and-funding-for-making-comics-for-open-source-projects/3130): 
        - For next OSD community call, talk about incorporation of open source review process
        - This work can continue internally but continue to make process external
    - Next steps:
        - [x] Mars: To follow up with her manager, employer
        - [x] Mars: Bring this conversation (NumPy community, developer POV) back to OSD

- Acccess to the plausible.io metrics:
   - [x] Inessa will contact Stefan

- Melissa: [Documentation issues](https://github.com/numpy/numpy/labels/04%20-%20Documentation)
