---
tags: documentation
---

# 2021-01-18 NumPy Documentation Team meeting

- Time: 4pm UTC
- Join via Zoom at: [link](https://zoom.us/j/96219574921?pwd=VTRNeGwwOUlrYVNYSENpVVBRRjlkZz09)

**Present:** Melissa Mendonça, Ryan Cooper, Isabela Presedo-Floyd, Matti Picus, Ross Barnowski, kubedoc, Anthony, Lev Maximov

## Topics

- numpy-tutorials
    - [Author commits](https://github.com/numpy/numpy-tutorials/issues/57)
        - The proposed solution of authors doing trivial changes to reset their names as the latest contributors on those files was accepted; for the next documents this won't be an issue as we'll avoid changing authorship while reviewing work.
    - Deploy status
        - Ross is bringing the issue up with Stefan to see if an easy solution can be found that allows us to deploy as soon as possible. There will be a meeting on wednesday to get this sorted
- Intro to Sphinx for Python documentation (tutorial at DataUmbrella): Jan 28
    - Melissa has a list of docs issues that could be assigned to newcomers; some require mentoring, others are more straightforward.
- Videos: where to organize this project?
    - Should we create a youtube channel? It would be helpful to have the account, and create a playlist with our own videos and linked videos from DataUmbrella, SciPy etc.
    - The planning for future videos will be done on the [BIDS repo]()
- Lev Maximov, author of ["NumPy Illustrated"](https://medium.com/better-programming/numpy-illustrated-the-visual-guide-to-numpy-3b1d4976de1d), joined us to mention that he is considering where to put this content. He mentions that even though 1-D vectors don't have orientation, they can be seen as row-vector for most operations; he wonders how this could be best represented in a visual guide.
- Anthony mentions that the "good first issues" tag is not frequently used in our main repository. 
    - There is a discussion around having a balance between having mentors available and having mentors too busy with newcomers. One compromise would be to have a list of issues that might work with mentoring to be share on slack.
- SIMD documentation: 
    - [https://github.com/numpy/numpy/issues/16763](Is this a good example/explanation to add?)
