# Notes from 20 Jul '20

**Present:** Melissa Mendon√ßa, Themistoklis Spanoudis, Mrinal Tyagi, Matti Picus, Ben Nathanson, Ralf Gommers

- How to remove a page? For example, https://numpy.org/about overlaps https://numpy.org/devdocs/dev/governance/people.html - how to remove the older page without breaking a TOC? (Ben)
    - (mattip) We could use an [HTML redirect](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/5411538/redirect-from-an-html-page) page
    - (mattip) points out we can figure out the links and references after writing a new content page. We can run sphinx with the -n option to see broken links and references. 
- Should we start mining NumPy mailing list for this [Github issue](https://github.com/numpy/numpy/issues/16801) to collect Questions/Topics for Explanations (Mrinal)
    - There is a nabble archive http://numpy-discussion.10968.n7.nabble.com/
    - Mrinal also suggests we use sphinx gallery in the future. Melissa points out we still need to decide where those documents will live
- When will we deploy the new Sphinx theme? (Ben)
    - https://github.com/scipy/scipy-sphinx-theme-v2/

- How do we plan to distinguish between How-To and Tutorial ? (Mrinal)
    - Ben suggests having one deliverable per how-to, with multiple quick and small documents
- IO How-To (Melissa - see https://github.com/numpy/numpy/issues/15760 and https://github.com/numpy/numpy-tutorials/pull/14)

- Where should numpy-tutorials be rendered? (Melissa)
    - Ralf suggests just adding binder links in the readme and not rendering it directly
    - Ben mentions that it would be better to have a single entry point for the documentation, to make it easier to navigate.

- Ben mentions a possible rework of the Quickstart tutorial
    - Ralf suggests having a plan first, before the discussion gets too wide

- Melissa mentions that during the SciPy informal discussions, there was a documentation session and Hannah (Matplotlib) mentioned it would be nice to have a common ground between projects (e.g. NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib - maybe others). This would mean we would share ideas about content and future plans for documentation. 

- Topics left from last meeting:
    - Mahfuza's suggestion of a NumPy cheat sheet (Ben)
    - Further suggestions on generating how-tos (Ben)
    - Thoughts on improving NumPy glossary (Ben)
    - SciPy Cookbook update (Ben)

