---
tags: documentation
---

# 2020-05-18 NumPy Documentation Team meeting

- Time: 8am Pacific Time
- Join via Zoom at: https://zoom.us/j/420005230

**Present:** Melissa Mendonça, Ralf Gommers, Themistoklis Spanoudis, Matti Picus, Hmrishav Bandyopadhyay, Ross Barnowski, Ryan Cooper, Siddhartha Kapoor, Hannah Aizenman, Maja Gwozdz, Ben Nathanson

## Topics

- Season of Docs '20: getting started:
    For now, all the information you need about the program is in the official GSoD website (https://developers.google.com/season-of-docs), and in our proposal (https://github.com/numpy/numpy/wiki/Google-Season-of-Docs-2020-Project-Ideas).

    If you are interested, we recommend working on the following:

    - Familiarizing yourself with the NumPy docs and the workflow for building them (https://numpy.org/devdocs/dev/howto-docs.html)
    - Reading NEP 44 to have an idea of the current vision and focus for the docs (https://numpy.org/neps/nep-0044-restructuring-numpy-docs.html)
    - Working on your own proposal, so we can analyze it later.

    You have until **June 8** to do this, and if you need help or have questions about any of the above, please get in touch so we can help. Make sure you get in touch with the mentors directly by sending your message to numpy-scipy-gsod@googlegroups.com . Please be aware that although the mentors can answer questions and give you information, **you must write your own project**.


- IPython terminal markup vs `>>>` in tutorials
    - Ryan comments that having the ability to turn off the input characters (`>>>` or `In[?]`) is very helpful: check if this is fixable
    - Ross mentions that if you are generating docs automatically, the numbering for ipython input lines are automatically generated, but if it's static content they have to be manually set up (Ralf notes: static content would not have any prompt, so not really an issue)
    - Matti mentions that having long documents with several comments might be better with numbered lines
    - Hannah comments that many people don't know what the `>>>` characters might be: we should make sure to explain what the input prompts are 


- [Jupyter notebooks repository](https://github.com/numpy/numpy-tutorials): help with deciding right workflow. Should we accept `.ipynb` files and process them/serve them on a sphinx-themed page, integrated with the numpy documentation? Should it be a separate page with no Sphinx?
    - Siddhartha mentions that sphinx is the de facto standard for documentation and many people are relatively familiar with it
    - Ross says there's a new "executable books" project that lets people write in the format they're most used to. It has Sphinx as backend, understands Markdown and reST. In beta, but already has some adoption.
      * Source for a sample sphinx site using the `MyST-NB` sphinx extension: https://github.com/rossbar/sample_notebook_tutorials_site
    - Myst might be a good option for reproducibility and maintainability
    - We'll merge one notebook (Melissa's PR on numpy-tutorials), and Ross will submit a basic PR to show how the executable books toolchain would work.
    - Hannah asks if it would be interesting to have a joint repo for numpy+scipy+matplotlib
    - Another interesting tool: https://github.com/pyviz-dev/nbsite
    - We want to make it as easy as possible for people to contribute
    - Themistoklis says he could learn Sphinx, but using Jupyter notebooks would be much nicer.

<a name="centralized_project"></a>
- There is a larger discussion about building a centralized project that organizes several project (maybe under PyData) to include documentation and guidelines for users

- Setting up [Gitpod](https://gitpod.io) (free for open source projects up to 50 hrs/month). 

- Uniform documentation style guide (Google), see the issue [here](https://github.com/numpy/numpy/issues/16262). Perhaps we should vote (I mean, set up a global Numpy/SciPy poll) on adopting this style guide?
    - Here's the guide: https://developers.google.com/style
    - Maja says this would have really helped her in last years' GSoD project for SciPy.
    - Ross notes that we should make sure to inform people that this does not refer to the docstrings
    - This can be included in the reviewer's guide for documentation issues
    - We should make sure to not be too picky in order to not alienate possible contributor's because English is not their first language
    - Overall feeling: everyone is positive.
