# 2019-12-16 NumPy Community Survey Meeting

Time: 11:00 am PST / 2:00 pm EST / 8:00 pm CET

Join Hangouts Meet: https://meet.google.com/trm-gvto-guz
<br> **note: Hangouts works best with Chrome*

Join by phone: +1 980-533-5653 PIN: 455 016 082#

[Slack workspace](https://numpy-team.slack.com)

[Meetings archive](https://github.com/numpy/archive/tree/master/status_meetings)

**Present:** Inessa, Ross, Sebastian 



# Agenda

1. Presentation at UM Survey Research Center (presentation, slide deck).
All the documentation related to the survey is stored here: github.com/numpy/numpy-surveys

2. Presentation at UM Computer Science and Engineering Department (topic, presentation, slide deck).
 - Contacted 2 EECS POC's, waiting to hear back
 - Proposed topics:
   * A little history
   * Scientific python ecosystem (and NumPy's place in it)
   * Recent developments
   * Future (near & far-term)
 - Slides
   * **Very rough** outline [here](https://gist.github.com/rossbar/24161df0370e95f11090011a1bcfa4f6)
   * Planning on using Jupyter notebook with [RISE](https://rise.readthedocs.io/en/maint-5.6/)

3. Setting up a collaboration with UM Survey Research Center students (project management and communication tools, reporting, etc.)




# Meeting Minutes

## 1. Presentation at UM Survey Research Center 

This presentation will be given to the students of the Survey Methodology class. It should help them to gain a better understanding about the project, community/target audience and objectives of this survey.

*Key objectives:*
- Better understanding of the ever-growing NumPy user and contributor community.
- Improved community communication and engagement as an outcome.
- Input from the community for the NumPy Roadmap.

*Documentation repo:* [Github](github.com/numpy/numpy-surveys)

*Translations:*
We have volunteers assigned for most of the languages in the proposal. More translations volunteers are always welcome.

*Presentation:*
Inessa will start with an outline for the presentation.

## 2. Presentation at UM Computer Science and Engineering Department 

**Ross**
Contacted 2 EECS POC's, waiting to hear back.

*Proposed topics:*
   * A little history
   * Scientific python ecosystem (and NumPy's place in it)
   * Recent developments
   * Future (near & far-term)

*Slides:*
 - **Very rough** outline [here](https://gist.github.com/rossbar/24161df0370e95f11090011a1bcfa4f6).
- Planning on using Jupyter notebook with [RISE](https://rise.readthedocs.io/en/maint-5.6/).
- Incorporate Shaloo Shalini’s [infographics](https://github.com/numpy/numpy-surveys/pull/3) to the slide deck.

## 3. Collaboration tools

The UM faculty sees value in adopting the tools our team uses for communication and project management to allow their students interested in employment in the tech sector to gain insight into the day-to-day operations of a tech team. 
<br>*Video conferencing:* BlueJeans, preferred by UM, will be using their account.
<br>*Ideas:* set up a separate Slack channel, use HackMD for taking meeting minutes. GitHub might be a little intimidating, but we can try. Flexibility is key when it comes to tooling and collaboration.

# Action Items
**Inessa:** slides for the UM Survey Research Center presentation.

**Ross:**
   * Email Prof. Lepkowski (12/16) | CC Inessa
   * Follow up with UM EECS POCs (aim for info by 12/20)
   * Rough draft slide deck. Due date: 1/3/2020

## Notes 
<!-- Other important details discussed during the meeting can be entered here. -->