# 2019-12-10 NumPy Web Team Meeting

Time: 9:00 PM IST / 7:30 AM PST

Join Hangouts Meet: meet.google.com/axt-ezae-tms
<br> **note: Hangouts works best with Chrome*

Join by phone: +1 929-336-0281‬ PIN: ‪416 898 831‬#

[Slack workspace](https://numpy-team.slack.com)

[Meetings archive](https://github.com/numpy/archive/tree/master/status_meetings)

**Present:** Inessa, Shekhar, Ralf, Shaloo, Joe



# Agenda

1. Status of the new website.
2. Status of content creation.
3. Status of translations with Crowdin.
4. Make a tentative roll-out plan.

# Meeting Minutes
A very good progress on the website has been made in the past month. 

## 1. Content

</br>*Inessa*
</br> The high level pages planned out on the site map are completed. Will be moving to the main branch on GitHub, adding links, fine-tuning the webpages as needed.

*Shaloo*
</br> More content is coming.

*Ralf*
</br> To draft up “General Purpose” tab.


## 2. NumPy.org (Hugo generated)

*Joe*
</br> - Working on the open GitHub issues (adjusting white space, refining the demo shell on the homepage, etc.)
</br> - Need to fine-tune the mobile version of the website.

*Inessa*
</br>Working on a quick start module for install.md page.

*Graphic Design*
</br> Use graphics available under Creative Commons licenses. 

## 3. Translations with Crowdin

</br>ZJ again offered help, not only with translations, but also with setting up the workflow.

</br>We do have a shared Slack channel with Crowdin that can be useful.

</br>Make translating into Mandarin a priority.

*Shekhar*
</br>- Discussing about the new account and key that is needed in config file: `PROJECT_IDENTIFIER_CROWDIN` and `API_KEY_CROWDIN`
</br>- Crowdin account upgraded to open source project - so more translation and check the machine translation for various languages.

## 4. NumPy Documentation (Sphinx generated) 
*Shekhar*
</br>- Working on open issue in scipy/scipy-sphinx-theme-v2: labelled them and discussing.
</br>- Surge deployment - github action have some issue with picking `secrets` in some PR, so moving to travis CI.
</br>- Creating blog post about the work.
</br>- Making the sphinx theme configurable.

*Ralf*
</br>Write up *Core Developer Guide*.


## 5. Tentative roll-out plan
</br> Have all the content for numpy.org v1.0 uploaded by December, 22nd.




## Notes 
<!-- Other important details discussed during the meeting can be entered here. -->



