# 2023-08-07 NumPy optimization meeting

- Time: 16:00 (4pm) UTC
- Join via Zoom: https://numfocus-org.zoom.us/j/88162122074?pwd=a3h0cTZubzlLcTZzMVhCL1AxUVFMdz09
- [NumPy community events calendar](https://scientific-python.org/calendars)
- [Upcoming community meeting agenda](https://hackmd.io/76o-IxCjQX2mOXO_wwkcpg)
- [Community meetings notes archive](https://github.com/numpy/archive/tree/main/community_meetings)
- [Triage meetings notes archive](https://github.com/numpy/archive/tree/master/triage_meetings)
- [Documentation team meetings notes archive](https://github.com/numpy/archive/tree/main/docs_team_meetings)
- [Optimization team meetings notes archive] TBD

**Code of Conduct**
The NumPy Steering Council has made a strong commitment to creating an open, inclusive, and positive community. 
All attendees of NumPy community events must adhere to the NumPy Code of Conduct (https://numpy.org/code-of-conduct/). 
If you see violations, take a screenshot, intervene in a respectful manner, and report it to the CoC Committee via email. For more information, refer to the Reporting Guidelines section on https://numpy.org/code-of-conduct/.

**Present**: Matti, Sebastian, Raghuveer, Shashank, Chris, Jan, Ralf, Sayed

## Topics

- Performance Enhancement Strategies: Discuss potential avenues for improving the performance of NumPy, focusing on generic SIMD optimizations. e.g. replacing Intel SVML
  - Sayed surveyed the current situation: 
    - we have c-based metaprogramming that generates code
    - we have ufuncs that use lookup tables for inner loop functions (per dtype, memory layout, and CPU capabilities). Should this be via c++?
      - currently some of this unfortunately happens within the inner-loop.
    - testing needs to cover all these cases
      - could we isolate the inner function and test it independently?
    - code with and without SIMD optimization must have the same accuracy/precision.
    - There is already AVX512 only code in SVML, we should replace it with a more generic solution
      - Can we use any kind of code generation to follow this
      - This may be a lower priority

- Framework Evaluation: Explore the options of either continuing to rely on our in-house SIMD framework (universal intrinsics) or leveraging external projects like Highway. See [draft NEP](https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/24138/files) and [technical discussion](https://github.com/numpy/numpy/issues/24084).
  - (Chris) This is as much as I could get done on the spike before holiday:
      - Static Dispatch - https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/24385
          - This has a more complete example of different memory loads but there's some bug with the ordering on AVX512, can look more when I'm back (any integration will have teething issues :smile_cat:)
      - Dynamic Dispatch - https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/24384
  - (Chris) Does NumPy *want* to maintain a dynamic dispatch framework?
      - From Chris' point of view they would rather not, they would rather focus on delivering optimisations for users
      - The Highway infrastructure does work, which is good :smile_cat: 
  - (Chris) Does NumPy *want* to maintain a intrinsics library?
      - I'm thinking about where else I could try to use Highway: SciPy, scikit-learn, xgboost, etc. Re-usability outside of NumPy makes that easier.
  - (Chris) Is this all blocking https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/24018 being merged? Or should I commit some resource to cleaning that patch up?
  - Highway can provide build-time logs of which features will be compiled for which features
  - `binutils` can be out of sync with the compiler, so we get assembler that cannot be linked. Shouldn't this be a task for meson to disable features that `binutils` does not support.
  - When the build crashes, we need a log that can be shared with the NumPy developers

- Highway Project Assessment: Evaluate Highway as a potential solution. Address its merits and limitations, taking into account perspectives from maintainers actively involved with the project.

  - (Jan) Static dispatch: Highway vs. other wrappers
    + +Healthy community: 2700 Github stars (steady growth), 12 committers with >5 PRs, >12 projects outside Google, dozens of contributors testing/raising issues/sending patches for various platforms.

    + +Large set of platforms/compilers supported. Includes SVE/SVE2/WASM but not yet System z.

    + +Major reduction in ongoing support burden. Google and contributors take care of fixes/maintenance for various combinations of compiler/OS. Over the years we have built up a large collection of workarounds for compiler bugs.

    + +Large number of supported ops. Not all useful for NumPy, but likely more than expected (e.g. LoadDup128).

    - -More verbose implementation due to Cpp11/14 support (because some users are still on older GCC). Currently one function overload per type. With Cpp17 `if constexpr`, could combine multiple into one function. Note that this is not visible to users.

    - -Work required to add NumPy-specific functionality such as the testing unit, unordered != operator, Lookup128 etc.

   - (Jan) Dynamic dispatch: Highway vs build-system specific
     + +Reliably avoiding SIGILL crashes and undefined behavior. With -m compiler flags, any non-forceinline function in a header included in the source file risks crashes if linker processing order is unlucky (may also change with parallel linkers such as mold). Workaround of wrapping headers in anon namespace is undefined behavior if they also include system headers: may violate the one definition rule or break linking. The -m flags have worked so far without issue for OpenCV, but Google has seen crashes. That project, and Highway, now use #pragma instead of -m flags.
       - (Sayed) at link time OpenCV and the new meson system sorts the object files. **Assuming** (without guarantee?) the linker processes them in the order we expect, this avoids crashes. At Google, we did not have control over the linking order in our build system, hence there was a crash. Now that Meson is implemented, it is understandable we would want to use it. Note that relying on it for dynamic dispatch does lock us in to that build system. If the project feels this is acceptable/desirable, then it does seem to be a viable alternative to Highway's dynamic dispatch and it is still possible to use Highway in static dispatch mode (see above).

     + +Independent of build system. If Meson is no longer maintained, or replaced with a standardized solution (like cargo in Rust), then no more dynamic dispatch support until we extend the new build system or switch to Highway dynamic dispatch (not too hard if we design with that possibility in mind).

     + +White-box system can be extended/customized as desired from C++ code.

     - Diagnosing which Highway targets are enabled can currently be achieved by running the list_targets binary in your build; its output would go into the build log. But this reflects the global build flags. It is likely more interesting to have functionality at runtime that reports which targets were built *for a specific ufunc*, in addition to other runtime-only facts such as pointer alignment/overlapping, etc. This can easily be done in NumPy by writing per-module functions that return `HWY_TARGETS` (a 64-bit value indicating which targets were built).

     - -Compile time: each source file is repeated several times, so to enable across-source parallelism, better to have smaller files (<2KLOC, 200-300 lines for tests which are often repeated for each type = 10x).

     - -'Unusual' code, ~15 lines of extra code ([example](https://gcc.godbolt.org/z/zP7MYe9Yf)) are best copy-pasted when starting a new SIMD module.

     - -Targets 'clusters' of CPU features to reduce code size and testing effort. If wanting to target e.g. NEON dot-product extension, would add a new target/cluster (feasible). It is possible to build individual modules for a subset of targets to reduce binary size.

     - -MSVC works, but the compiler is unreliable (recently had to introduce fences to fix a compiler bug) and generates less-efficient code, so we recommend using Clang/GCC instead. They are also available on Windows as clang-cl/MinGW.

- Specifics:
  - Detecting available SIMD features
  - Dispatching at runtime
    - Setting up function pointers at first run/process startup
    - Traceability: how do we know what actually ran?
  - Writing SIMD kernels
  - Share-ability with other projects

- Precision rules 
    - What are our guidelines for precision of routines?
      - This should be consistent across routines so users don't see changes in precision unexpectedly
      - I (Chris) think 1ULP is now the baseline? so we should aim for everything 1ULP by default if possible (in my opinion), even if that means that we don't see value from SIMD.
    - What about if we want to go fast?
      - opt-in using errstate? (mattip: should be easier after [PR 23936](https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/23936))
      - libmvec seems to offer only 4ULP and no error guarantees for fast maths, should we match this?

- Team Logistics: meetings cadence (e.g., every 2 weeks, monthly, weekly)
  - Next meeting in 3 weeks (Aug 28)

## Action items
- Finish [NEP 54](https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/24138) by adding concerns and possible mitigations.
- Take a look at [this diff](https://github.com/numpy/numpy/compare/main...Mousius:numpy:hwy-spike?expand=1) to see how a mixed model might work. Chris will create another one that uses the static dispatch.
- Take a look at the new meson detection/build work and the logs.
