
## Notes for July 18th, 2022

**Present:** Melissa Mendonça (@melissawm), Inessa Pawson (@inessapawson), Sanya Sinha(@ssanya942), Matti Picus (@mattip), Mars Lee (@marsbarlee), Satish Mishra

* Inessa: video from the June 30th NumPy Newcomers’ Hour: https://youtu.be/lHDEr2eCjAM
<br>Speaker: Ryan C. Cooper
<br>Topic: NumPy in the classroom
<br>If you'd like to help with creating timestamps and reviewing/editing/translating subtitles, reach out to Inessa Pawson

* Reorganizing the [User guide](https://numpy.org/doc/stable/user/index.html)
    * Feedback: there are a lot of outdated pages; some pages are too detailed for users and should probably be reorganized.
    * Can we come up with an outline for how this should look? (mattip) Do we need to refresh [NEP 44](https://numpy.org/neps/nep-0044-restructuring-numpy-docs.html)?
    * Roadmap: https://numpy.org/neps/roadmap.html#documentation-and-website
    * Melissa's hypothesis: new users use table of contents so need a straight path to using fundamentals vs seasonsed users use search bar, more like reference in dictionary
    * User Stories
        * Made for website, some overlap but should make new user stories for documentation
    - [x] Inessa: make a new tracking issue for making user journies in the documentation.
        * Can use website analytics?
            * Only have analytics for numpy.org, not sphinx pages
            * heat map?
                * not implemented, may be controversial to implement due to more user tracking, privacy concerns
            * [plausible tracking](https://plausible.io/): some projects such as pandas have plausible tracking (Google Analytics alteratnive), added via code snippet (thus no overhead)
            * Example from SciPy: https://github.com/scipy/scipy/blob/main/doc/source/_templates/layout.html
            * plausible tracking is already implemented on numpy.org
            * maybe ask NumPy Community meeting and mailing list about plausible tracking
    * [ ] Melissa: Make an issue with a top level outline of user guide 
    * [ ] Melissa: Make a PR about plausible tracking on full docs
    * Sanya's experience: uses Google search, or StackOverflow more than documentation. We probably get most traffic via search engine
    * Inessa: While SEO exists, would not recommend for docs. Instead we can find most searched keywords
        * Docs are optimized for users, not page clicks
        * Esnure all pages are searchable, which are enabled by default
        * In Google Analytics, want to keep a low 'bounce rate', good user stays for 3+ minutes
        * Inessa: Our bounce rates for numpy.org are good

- Inessa: documentation sprint with Meekail Zain at SciPy'22: https://hackmd.io/zm65_TjfSpi9DSSkE2o7Iw
    - Zones of contribution where we identify the missing parts
    - Identify missing parts and he is willing to document his learning journey, deliver MVP of what should be visible for people in each zone and expand as new questions come in
    - Submit an issue? Sharing more widely? Inessa recommend his to join the NumPy meetings
    - Sharing more widely? As if now, the documentation sprit, Would like more people's opinions about zones
    - Meekail's opinion: Beginner's is clear but after beginner, much less clear direction
    - Inessa: State pre-requite knowledge: "This is what you need to know before starting the", ideally in our docs but can link out for now, example PRs as learning tool**
    - Matti: For CAPI, specialized knowledge, can be hard because of different backgrounds of contributors
        - [ ] Matti: Document some of our disucssion, for example how and why the CAPI maintainers are doing CAPI work.
    -  We need more maintainers
        - we are failing to transition contributors to maintainers
        - especially a concern as people get new jobs, other priorities come up
    - At work setting, all this would be training or shadowing or showing the company codebase
    - Melissa: Is there any way we can protect mentoring time for the maintainers?
        - Either part of a grant or hours requirements in the job
    - Matti: Livestream PR making: Here's our Twitch channel, every 2pm on Tuesday, come watch how we do PRs?
        - Maybe not even need to be planned or annouced, just record on Twitch and release on Twitch
        - Just record screen, we can add subtitles or voiceover later don't need to entertain crowd
        - Twitch alternative: StreamYard, straight away broadcast on Youtube
        - [x] Matti: Talk to Sebestian about streaming the process of working in the code base and PRs.
    - How much is this documented vs a learning, shadowing process

* Rohit: Wording, decisions on `returns` vs `return`
    * e.g. https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/21997#discussion_r922716458
    * Personally plugging returns since PEPs don't really apply to us anyway
    * Comment on the issue if you have opinions
    	* (mattip) commented

* Melissa: Updating [the numpy.org design and content improvements tracking issue](https://github.com/numpy/numpy.org/issues/266)
    * was brought up in roadmap discussion
    * improvement to installation docs, need to verify
    * translation
    * case studies
    * If you feel like there's no need for some ("we have enough case studies"), then let us know in the issue 

* Melissa: https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/20645
    * No one knows? Confusing but no clear resolution
    * basics indexing, explaining, what triggers advanced indexing, what kinds of objects, indexing arrays (boolean, tuple, etc)
    * What is the name the object you use in indexing arrays?
        * "selection object"
        * "selection tuple"
    * Would like more people's opinions in the PR
        * Would only like the word "selection tuple" if a tuple is used, but understandable why if used beyond tuple...
    * If we don't have a better solution, don't change it
        * But may remain in limbo for another few years...
    - [ ] Melissa: Engage the mailing list for opinions
    * Last comment in issue is Ross, seems to know the most on the topic and is a native English speaker
    * Maybe improve text around the expression instead of changing the expression itself?
    
* Sanya interested in writing, directed to How To for NumPy Tutorials
    * how do you use this function?
    * how do you perform common workflows with NumPy?
    * Sanya can ask NumPy Slack channel for more
