---
tags: documentation
---

# 2022-02-28 NumPy Documentation Team meeting

- Time: 4PM UTC
- Join via Zoom at: [link](https://zoom.us/j/96219574921?pwd=VTRNeGwwOUlrYVNYSENpVVBRRjlkZz09)

**Present:** Inessa Pawson, Ganesh Kathiresan, Elizabeth Brown, Matt Danda, Ross Barnowski, Mukulika Pahari, Jake VanderVaate, Vasiliy, Mars Lee, Alex de Siqueira

## Topics

- [Proposal to remove the PDF version of the **SciPy** docs](https://mail.python.org/archives/list/scipy-dev@python.org/thread/E2NNGLDZDOKD65Z2FW3TINZ2A2GQGHP5/)
    - Process: Run Sphinx which convert rst (input format) to docutils (abstract syntax tree) to LaTex (typesetting technical document)
    - LaTex makes PDFs. However, PDF formatting not good- linking not good, take forever to build.
    - SciPy already considering to stop running LaTeX. Save time. Already provide zipped HTML docs, which are better formatted than PDFs
    - Should we think about doing the same?
    - Reasons to not do it: Some people use PDF documention, such as with spotty internet may want PDF. But we should push to use zipped HTML anyway
    - How many people use the pdf docs? How do we get feedback from the community on this issue?
      * ask on the mailing list, but be aware that the response will be developer-biased
      * ask on the Gitter and StackOverflow
    - Ideas:
      * Remove from CI, but keep available during release
        - Puts more on Chuck's shoulders/need some extra helpers for the release process
      * Move it to a scheduled job
      * Provide instructions on how to build docs from source (pdf/html)
        - Difficult for non-developer users, of which there are many
    
    
- [DOC: define/use 'selection object' in basics.indexing.rst #20645](https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/20645)
  * Will have some extra eyes on it :tada: 
  * Seems relatively subjective at first glance, probably needs a closer look to really suss out all of the potential technicalities
- [SciPy extensions for code style and docstring guidelines](https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/13955)
    - Pointing to a policy vs automatic enforcer vs linter
    - Ross' preference: Remove unneccsary policies, would prefer enforcer. For example, current docs point to Chicago Manual of Style- but realistically nobody refers or enforces it. 
    - Present most important information first: NumPy style guide should be priortized over Chicago Manual of Style
- https://developers.google.com/season-of-docs/docs/timeline
    - The idea is to have a joint project with SciPy to update the [SciPy Lectures](https://scipy-lectures.org/)

- NumPy newsletter
After considering everyone’s input, Inessa proposed to collaborate on the content of the NumPy newsletter directly on GitHub. If it proves to be inefficient, we will consider other options that we discussed at the previous meeting (e.g., HackMD, HedgeDoc, Etherpad, etc.).
