---
tags: documentation
---

# 2020-08-31 NumPy Documentation Team meeting

- Time: 8am Pacific Time
- Join via Zoom at: https://zoom.us/j/420005230

**Present:** Melissa, Matti, Ralf, Ben, Goaba, Ryan, Anne, Joris, kubedoc, Abbas Harris, Shariq Khan

## Topics

- Sphinx theme:
    - https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/17074
    - Ben brings up that the heading fonts should be changed before the theme is merged. Joris mentions that we can wait for the theme to be simplified and then the changes can be done more easily. Ralf and Matti would prefer to merge now and make any further tweaks later. 
    - Joris mentions that we can work with the Spyder team and include any features we want to be done upstream
    - The theme was merged. See [issue 17200](https://github.com/numpy/numpy/issues/17200) for unifying fonts
- GSoD:
    - August 17 - September 13, 2020: *Technical writers get to know mentors, get up to speed with the open source organization, and refine their projects in collaboration with mentors*
    - September 14 - November 30, 2020: *Technical writers work on their project with guidance from mentors*
        - kubedoc mentions that he got the OK from a book author to have a document about how to build a neural network
            -  We can explain linear algebra parts that are needed during the process (Melissa's awesome idea)
            -  (Idea: NumPy for linear algebra for data science - expand/extend the HowTos and an existing tutorial)
        - Ryan mentions he has an outline of a tutorial about saving/loading Hilbert matrices and performing linear algebra operations (including treating precision loss and handling different formats)
            - Hilbert matrix `H[i,j]=1/(i+j-1)`
        - Proposals starting their lives as GitHub Issues 🗣
        - Ben mentioned we have style guides including for tutorials - let's use those 🙌
    - [Timeline](https://developers.google.com/season-of-docs/docs/timeline)
- Status from previous meetings discussions
- Spyder docs (should be released the weekend before the meeting): worth looking at for inspiration! ([link](https://docs.spyder-ide.org/current/index.html)) They have a version dropdown that preserves document location if possible.
- Project question (Ben)
    - Ben mentions that we should have a better focus on the big questions and issues instead of hanging on to smaller details. We should work to organize the reviews and discussions around documentation to be at a higher level, keeping track of the bigger picture instead of excessive nitpicking.
- NumPy for MATLAB users: https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/17159
- NumPy tutorial writers (Abbas Harris and Shariq Khan) signed up for the semester through UConn work study research apprenticeship
