## Notes for August 15, 2022

**Present:** Melissa (@melissawm), Inessa Pawson (@inessapawson), Mars Lee (@marsbarlee), Matti Picus (@mattip), James Munroe (@jmunroe)

- Inessa: NumPy documentation user stories - tracking issue: https://github.com/numpy/numpy/issues/22089
- Inessa: NumPy is now on LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/company/numpy/. Please follow us!
    - The communications policy: announcements only.
- Melissa: [DOC: Reorganize user guide outline #22117](https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/22117)
    - [Built artifact](https://output.circle-artifacts.com/output/job/31dcda2f-25a4-46d3-ba7f-0ce2c452865f/artifacts/0/doc/build/html/user/index.html)
    - Moves a couple of pages, while not exactly changing their content.
    - Open to suggestions for section names
        - Renamed 'Basics' to 'Fundamentals'
        - 'Under the Hood' or 'For Developers' or 'For Advanced Users'?
- Melissa: [Move to sphinx-design](https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/22116)
    - Currently use 'sphinx-panels', allows for cards
    - sphinx-panels is being deprecated
    - Move over sphinx-design before sphinx-panels is completely deprecated
    - Advantages of sphinx-design: more functionality, combines features of sphinx-panels, buttons, etc
    - Melissa to investigate (thanks @rossbar!), ensure CI passes so we can merge
- Melissa: Implement [Plausible tracking](https://plausible.io/) on all pages, not just numpy.org
    - Tracks every doc page
        - bounce rate, where they come to the page, etc
    - Doesn't track personal data, better fit than Google Analytics
    - We should wait for the next release of the Scientific Python theme. Pamphile Roy mentioned that it will include a configuration option similar to what is done to setup google analytics, so will be easier to set up
- Inessa: Updating content of [SciPy Lectures](https://scipy-lectures.org/)
    - James Munroe, Product Lead and Community Manager at 2i2c, would like to help with updating the content of the Lectures or some other topics related to the NumPy documentation
        - Seeing missing piece: After newcomers complete the first tutorial,they think 'why continue with this tool?'. How does this replace my current tool?
        - Convince people, show it can maximize utility
    - Stages of SciPy Lecture updates
        - 1. Infastructure
        - 2. Content
    - Does this work need to be done?
        - If not, we could just point SciPy Lectures as is, amplify
    - How will this work be done?
        - First step: Inessa to contact original creators to get permission to work on the content review, perhaps some of them would like to collaborate.
    - User groups James is focusing on
        - User: No problem installing tool, got buy-in, got small team of 10 people
        - "I did a 2 hour course, what else does this cool thing do?"
        - "We have a matlab license already, what does this do better?"
    - Formats aiming to make: Written, Lecture, Interactive course
        - Problem: not aware of open source toolset to make an interactive course, spin up enviroment for users to play in
        - One option (nascent): PyScript, running content in browser itself,
        - Grading?
            - Automatic grading tools such as [NB grader](https://nbgrader.readthedocs.io/)
            - Ryan: As educator of NumPy at UConn, alternates between using and not using grading systems. Prefers giving individual feedback instead of nitpicky, automatic feedback
            - Striking balance of having automatic and personal teaching
        - In-person workshops at some point?
            - Providing training by having really strong documentation
        - Nature of stack: Always changing, hits snags if relying on 3, 4, 5 years old lectures
            - Eg. Having newcomer read page on python2 vs python3: Do I have to worry about that? Yes, but not anymore
            - Matter of keeping content up to date and then enthusiastically recommending
    - Why open source in particular?
        James: Build upon other initatives: [NASA's TOPS (Towards Open Science)](https://science.nasa.gov/open-science/transform-to-open-science), 6 years, 20,000 scientists, developing curricula, open publishing, open data
        - Try to make 2023 the 'Year of Open Source'
        - Thus there already is a strong value proposition for open science
- Moving forward with [ENH: ndarray.__format__ implementation for numeric dtypes](https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/19550)?
    - not merged yet: no release notes, what happens with object arrays, etc
    - Matti: We need people to push their own PR, carry the flag
    - Meekail: Changing view from 'here's my work, please look at it when you can' -> Interactive process, need to push and pull
        - Maybe that's why people haven't carried the flag, maybe don't know, need do a few more PRs to understand process
        - Or have questions don't know how to ask "Do you need help moving forward" or "Join the meeting"
