---
tags: documentation
---

# 2020-12-07 NumPy Documentation Team meeting

- Time: 8am Pacific Time
- Join via Zoom at:  https://zoom.us/j/96219574921?pwd=VTRNeGwwOUlrYVNYSENpVVBRRjlkZz09

**Present:** Melissa, kubedoc, Ryan, Al-Baraa, Ross

## Topics

- kubedoc notes that the writethedocs community may be a place to do outreach and find new contributors. kubedoc also mentions [apithedocs](https://apithedocs.org/). We talked about incluing a list of curated resources for documentation writers 
- Ross mentions its important not to overwhelm with resouces -> mention that these are _not prerequisites_
- Ryan asks if we could also use docs issues to create videos for onboarding (see [this onboarding planning repo](https://github.com/BIDS-numpy/planning-onboarding-material/))

- numpy-tutorials:
    - Deploy via gh-pages or netlify?
        - Right now, if we use gh-pages we might not be able to redirect the url to numpy.org/tutorials, which is the current preferred solution. We might wait for the numpy.org website team to move to netlify (Joe mentioned he might be able to do that some time soon.)
        - [Jupyter Book netlify publish](https://jupyterbook.org/publish/netlify.html) <- nice tutorial on setting up a static website with Jupyter notebooks
        - Actual CI activation should wait until the deployment decision is made
    - CircleCI setup and sphinx-build errors
        - Ross mentions that the best solution would be to turn on the sphinx option that turns "warnings" into "errors" so they would show up on CI. 
        - nbval should also be activate for more complete testing (cell outputs etc). We should do this using github actions, Melissa will look into it.
    - [Organizing tutorial resources and outputs](https://github.com/numpy/numpy-tutorials/pull/45)
        - Waiting on x-ray tutorial to be merged

- Ryan:
    - Work on the README for the numpy-tutorials repo about converting ipynb to md through jupytext
        - Ryan has removed the instructions about pairing to a separate document, to keep the README simple.
    - [Array creation docs](https://github.com/numpy/numpy/issues/17710) 
    - Re-label NumPy basics as "Fundamentals" or "Explanations" _in good standing, part 1 of 3 for reorg_
    - Re-organize the landing page _2 PRs coming after the rename_
    

- kubedoc: Ideas
    - A tutorial/how-to for working with audio data with NumPy.
    - Automatic differentiation: building a small library with NumPy.
    - NumPy interoperability with JAX (a.k.a. "accelerated NumPy") - for numerical/scientific computing.

- Document SIMD changes? (request from Ganesh)
    - Sayed is aware and working on it
- How to use gdb to debug NumPy code (request from Ganesh)
    - There is a document about this in the docs, might need improvements.
