# Weekly status Aug 8, 2018

# dtypes

- Tyler has continued work on his missing int branch; unit test failures down from 38 to around 12, but some may be false positive due to dtype=object effects

- major challenge now seems to be preventing the dtype=object cast (probably digging into C stuff now)

- Matti notes that Tyler can avoid things like 5 + np.NA = 5 by overriding slots such as `__int__()`

- Matti is not convinced that what Tyler is doing is consistent with community objectives; but we don't really know what the exact community objectives are; more specifically, Matti thinks Tyler may be slowed down by working direcltly in NumPy source as opposed to mimicking 3rd-party approaches

### dtype goals

[trello card](https://trello.com/c/VmcDapaS) summarizes a bit of looking into what we want to accomplish with dtypes. What are our goals compared to what was on the dtype brainstorming doc? Also NJS wrote some thoughts in a [proto-nep](https://github.com/numpy/numpy/issues/2899) that is in the issue tracker, food for thought.

One annoying thing is the need to replicate all the slots for dtype scalars, then needing to write all the loops for ufuncs for ndarrays. Can we unify that?

# cleanup

Matti went through many of the issues and PRs sorting by labels and -labels and no:labels. The goal was to close dead ones and quickly triage simple ones. Went from 1720 issues to under 1690. Still working on ones marked DOC or label:Documentation.

# stuck PRs

- `__array_function__` NEP will hopefully be accepted next week
- gufunc signature NEP should also be accepted soon. It has a [PR #11175](https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/11175) that both Tyler and Matti have worked on to move forward.
- combining c-extensions [#11905](https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/10915), is waiting for more review.
- matmul-as-ufunc is waiting for #11175 

# testing / coverage

- Tyler opened a PR that adds C line coverage to the codecov test report -- there are no longer any known issues with this PR (not merged yet though)

- The Python line coverage has been merged & the setup.py ignore has also been merged

- there's an issue with 3 unit tests failing when the suite is run in the absence of a network connection; Tyler has drafted an example solution PR, but it is problematic because it adds a dependency (httpretty)--could also try mock from stdlib, pyttest monkeypatching, etc.
