# Status 2018-10-3

## BIDS report
The report came out nicely and was submitted on time to Sloan.

## CI progress
- Tyler has MacOS now running, but we've completely disabled acceleration libraries because of ACCELERATE issues; also, stochastic failure issues with parallel tests -- our test suite remains not thread-safe
  - try adding openblas to match the wheel builds distributed via pip, etc.? 
- Windows with Python 3.6 x64 has 3 test failures on the full suite, and they're all apparently related to complex numbers (complex.h) Matti will try to examine the failures.

## Cython progress

Matti has been working on Cython:

#### Disable warnings when ctypedef class type size changes

[PR 2627](https://github.com/cython/cython/pull/2627) was merged, Will be out soon. Once it lands we should update NumPy/SciPy to use the new cython and remove the warning filters from NumPy code.


#### Allow getter @property in ctypedef classes

A [WIP PR](https://github.com/cython/cython/pull/2640) was submitted. It still needs work, but a more experienced dev should chime in on how to do it.

## Making these discussions public.
How? All the meetings?

- Open up all future meetings
- Weekly meeting time
- Fixed meeting URL 
- We can discuss this during the next (community) meeting: https://hackmd.io/YZfpGn5BSu6acAFLBaRjtw#

## New developer onboarding documentation

Definition of done:

- A new preliminary guide is online that:
    - [Previous thoughts](https://hackmd.io/yEHYN0bTT0SP4ssLcrtmpw#)
    - This document will be more about the process of contributing, not the technical detail
        - What do you want to work on?
            1. Documentation
            2. Infrastructure
            3. Website
            4. Code
            
            - Link out externally to the technicalities of development:
                    1. Identify an issue to work on
                    2. Do the work (clone git, new branch, make changes, commit)
                    3. Submit your changes into a PR
        - What is the NumPy review process
    - The new guide must be simple (takes no more than 3 minutes to read end to end)
        - Links out to more advanced topics (those are separate docs)

## Outreachy program timing

We will aim for the next round, even though they are willing to make an exception for us this round.

## dtype -- _unicode concat
[Experiment PR 11931](https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/11931): Concatenation of _unicode arrays now supports broadcasting between arrays with different shapes: 
`['a', 'b'] + [['xy', 'zz'], ['gg', 'hh']] -> [['axy', 'bzz'], ['agg', 'bhh']]`

## f2py / distutils shell infection
Final C compiler [PR stalled](https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/11898)

## People to involve / have over

- Robert Bradshaw - cython developer

