# 10/17/2018 BIDS/NumPy Development Meeting

Join via Zoom at https://berkeley.zoom.us/j/400054438, or dial-in through a [local phone number](https://zoom.us/u/adQDmEc1wI).

[Trello board](https://trello.com/b/Azg4fYZH/numpy-at-bids)
[Agenda (this document)](https://hackmd.io/YZfpGn5BSu6acAFLBaRjtw)

**Present:** Stéfan van der Walt, Tyler Reddy, Matti Picus, Mark Harfouche, Ralf Gommers, Hameer Abbasi, Allan Haldane

## Issue and PR cleanup

- What would help organize issues & PRs?  E.g., labels, projects, ... ?
    - Adding labels often more helpful than a comment
    - "Needs work"
        - In scikit-image we have "action: merge", "action: monitor"
    - Difference between issues and PRs: we care a lot about making the list of PRs shorter, not so much about issues
    - Close? label - TODO we should have a written process for closing abandoned PRs
        - We can work on abandoned PRs, but how to prioritize?
            - It would be nice to get priorities on "Needs work" labels
            - How to assign reviewers to PRs
                - Can we use "assigned" field, and pre-propagate using existing reviewer comment as way to identify reviewer?
            - TODO Remove priority label other than HIGH
            - Automatically label old issues without comment as "closed" or "likely-abandoned"
            - TODO: Add commonly used GitHub queries for developers to NumPy wiki
    - Add an "in review" label?
    - Potentially discuss stuck PRs during these meetings, with an eye on resolving as many as possible?  Closing should be shared with the mailing list, to ensure full core contributor participation.
    - TODO Adopt a voting convention where thumbs-up means this is important

## Community Suggested Topics

- Please add further items for discussion here, along with your name (Stéfan)

## Stuck PRs

- [Breaking benchmark](https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/11965) where benchmark is changed to use pytest parameters which changes its name, breaking benchmark plotting continuity (Matti)
  - CONSENSUS: we can run new benchmarks for old code, so generally it is not that big of a problem to regenerate. We shouldn't make our benchmark code too ugly to do this.
- [record field access and views](https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/11530) A deeper decision is needed with regards to returning a view or a copy (Matti)
  - History: in 1.7 behavior changed to name-name assignment, but with many cases of undefined behavior. In 1.13 changed back to tuple-unpacking assignment.
  - CONSENSUS: comparison with pandas behavior as useful justification? Tuple assignment preferred over field name based assignment. 
  - TODO [Allan] Write up NEP / decision description document, we can help as necessary 
- [Padding optimizations](https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/11358) It is not clear to me how to move this forward. Is the PR still needed? Does it make code faster? It seems a [spin-off](https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/11966) PR may be showing that there is a simpler path to speeding up the code? (Matti)
  - Skip discussion on this one: low priority
  - There's a risk of falling into the trap of micro-optimizations here (Eric).
- We have np.percentile, np.quantile, np.nanpercentile, np.nanquantile. pr [11162](https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/11162) asks to unify the handling of asanyarray vs as array. 
  func | first line(s)
  --|--
  `nanpercentile` | `np.asanyarray(a)`, then `np.true_divide(a)`
  `nanquantile` | `np.asanyarray(a)`
  `percentile` | `np.true_divide(a)` which as a ufunc calls `asarray`
  `quantile` | none, waits for the call to `_quantile_ufunc_reduce` which calls `asarray`
  
  - may need clearer definition of which functions should support subclasses and which shouldn't re: passing through with `asanyarray()`; this is a broader discussion than just isolated cases above
      - ufuncs is an example of a large set that don't
  - TODO raise this for discussion on the mailing list
 - [exec_command PR](https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/11898) to remove `exec_command` from `distutils`: have to be cautious---may want confirmation from i.e., NASA group here?
     - we have not recieved feedback that `exec_command` is needed by users
     - we don't know the probability of breakage; this is distutils, after all
     - TODO Ask NASA explicitly for feedback
     - Can always revert in 16.1; it fixes a known, real bug
     - CONSENSUS: get feedback from NASA and merge
 - [NEP 18 gufunc PR #11175](https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/11175) needs a little push to get it over the last hump
     - Reviewers are tired and feel ownership after enough review, so we need fresh eyes
     - CONSENSUS: If three experienced maintainers agree, then we should push the button
     - TODO Allan will push the button

